All right, Inclusive Hiring & Workplaces.
So we've talked a lot about what we
can do as developers to make things
more accessible.
There's a bit of a bias in a lot
of what we're talking about and
the tooling in how we do our jobs.
And I just wanted to carve-out
some time to say that this is
accessibility is about working with
people with disabilities also.
We're not like saviors here.
This isn't about charity or something.
And we'll talk about
that more in a second.
But there's a little bit of a sad
irony that we're talking a lot about
accessibility and
many of the platforms that we use to
do our work are totally inaccessible.
So, fortunately,
there are some organizations and
some laws around accessible workplaces.
I have an infographic here from PEAT, or
the Partnership on Employment and
Accessible Technology.
And they just sort of like go into all
of the areas where levers could be
pulled on making the workplace more
accessible throughout technology.
So, government comes into it,
advocacy groups, employers have
responsibilities here, technology
companies for the tooling that we put out,
education and research, so
schools that have to teach it and
have to be accessible themselves
to students with disabilities.
So it's just kind of interesting,
we're not on our own here
in thinking about this.
There's groups that care a lot
about accessible workplaces
that we can lean on some of their
wisdom to learn about this.
And do what you can about ensuring that
you don't have tools that are being used,
like especially in hiring.
Is your interview tooling
totally inaccessible,
cuz that's the first barrier right there.
There's barriers throughout the work
life cycle, but that first door,
if you can't even apply for
a job, that's discrimination.
Kind of a big word,
that's really what this is.
So this isn't a statistics thing only,
this is like,
people with disabilities are literally
shut out of the process.
And so it's common but sometimes you're
in a place to do something about it.
So here's a quick story.
When I worked at a past company, I saw
some of our products that we were using,
cloud services and things for
HR, like performance reviews,
like our HR software,
it was easy to spot these issues.
I mean, I was using it all the time.
I was a manager at the time.
And so I provided product feedback
to both of those companies.
Like, hey, here's a prioritized
list of issues for you.
One of the companies was so eager to fix
that stuff that we got on a call and
they were like, more, give us more,
please, we love this.
Awesome.
The other company, crickets.
So sometimes you can make
a difference with this stuff,
people are really into it.
Sometimes it's just like throwing
your feedback into the garbage can,
unfortunately.
But you might be able to influence
procurement at your company if there's
a more accessible alternative to
something, just be aware of it.
It might be outside the scope of your
role, especially a big companies.
But this kind of elephant in
the room with accessibility is like,
we don't wanna just work
to make accessibility for
people, we want true inclusion and
true civil rights.
That's where we wanna get to.
On that note,
centering people with disabilities.
This goes beyond hiring.
This is getting back to
product development also.
So we wanna remember what this is about.
We don't wanna get caught up in just
like being accessibility technicians.
So there is a phrase in accessibility,
nothing about us without us.
We've been doing a lot of talking
about accessibility today, so
it is a little bit ironic to me
that I'm saying this right now.
But I just wanna share this with you so
that we can try and
open doorways in our work to
involve people with disabilities,
to join our teams,
to consult with our teams.
We're gonna pay people for their time.
There is a book here called
Nothing About Us Without Us,
if you're curious about
the history of disability rights.
It's a very rich history, and
I'm pretty in awe of how hard people
have worked to gain their rights.
A lot of our history in the US is
because of this activist history,
it's pretty awesome.
But it sucks that people had to do that.
They had to really fight for that.
And in some ways,
it's a lot easier for us on the web,
we can just redesign stuff and
rebuild stuff.
It's like we don't have to knock down,
we don't have to demolish a building to
make more accessible entrances to it.
But there are some analogs.
Depending on how
foundational the issues are,
we might need to tear down the site and
start over.
But with technology it
is slightly different.
So yeah, we wanna advocate for
accessibility or
people with disabilities to be
involved earlier in the process.
So one last thing on this is that there's
kind of a social media effect here that
was pointed out to me years ago that
there's a difference between accessibility
Twitter or the accessibility world and the
disability world or disability Twitter.
Those are not the same.
And being a young,
eager accessibility person,
that was kind of the first
realization I had of that a lot of
accessibility people are in
positions of privilege.
We kind of lose sight of what we're really
talking about here, no pun intended.
So just, yeah, if you get the opportunity,
Twitter is not what it used to be.
But disability Twitter is still on there.
It's still a way that people
connect with each other.
People are sharing their experiences.
So we'd be really wise to listen cuz
people can tell us what frustrates them,
especially with that
accessibility statement.
If they can tell you exactly what
frustrates them about your site,
that is a real gift.